README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators)

# logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators
ANSI syntax highlighting for [logstash-logback-encoder] JSON output.

Features:
  * Syntax highlighting (and pretty printing)
  * Special field handling 
    * Level: trace, debug, info, warn and error
    * Message

The primary use-case for this tool is coloring JSON console-output during __local development / unit testing__.

In production rather configure an encoder without a `Decorator` and apply proper visualization tools like [Kibana]. Use [conditional processing] to differentiate between different environments in [Logback] configuration.

## License
[Apache 2.0]

# Obtain
The project is based on [Maven] and is available at central Maven repository.

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.github.skjolber.logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators</groupId>
    <artifactId>logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.4</version>
</dependency>
```

or for Gradle

```groovy
compile ("com.github.skjolber.logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators:logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators:1.0.4")
```

# Usage
Add a [JsonGeneratorDecorator]:

```xml
<appender name="STDOUT_JSON" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
    <encoder class="net.logstash.logback.encoder.LogstashEncoder">
        <!-- add pretty-printing and syntax highlighting for testing -->
        <jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighlightingDecorator"/>
    </encoder>
</appender>
```

The default decorator is aware of the log-level and highlights `WARN` and `ERROR` with yellow and red background colors. 

## Custom colors
Define your own colors using `ConfigurableSyntaxHighlighter`:

```xml
<jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighligtingDecorator">
    <syntaxHighlighterFactory class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.factory.ConfigurableSyntaxHighlighterFactory">
        <stringValue>blue</stringValue>
        <numberValue>black highIntensity</numberValue>
        <fieldName>red</fieldName>
        <binaryValue>yellowBackground</binaryValue>
        <booleanValue>cyan</booleanValue>
        <nullValue>black</nullValue>
        <curlyBrackets>green</curlyBrackets>
        <squareBrackets>green</squareBrackets>
        <colon>green</colon>
        <whitespace>green</whitespace>
        <comma>green</comma>
    </syntaxHighlighterFactory>
</jsonGeneratorDecorator>
 ```

and space-separated foreground, background and style keys. For special handling of fields `message` and `level`, use the `LogLevelSyntaxHighlighterFactory`:

```xml
<jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighligtingDecorator">
    <syntaxHighlighterFactory class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.factory.LogLevelSyntaxHighlighterFactory">
        <level>
            <info>green</info>
            <warning>yellow</warning>
            <error>red</error>
        </level>
        <message>highIntensity blue</message>
    </syntaxHighlighterFactory>
</jsonGeneratorDecorator>
```

### Foreground color
| Key | Text color |
| ----- | ----------- |
| default | Default text |
| black | Black text |
| red | Red text | 
| green | Green text |
| yellow | Yellow text |
| blue | Blue text |
| magenta | Magneta text |
| cyan | Cyan text |
| white | White text |

### Background color
| Key | Background color |
| ----- | ----------- |
| defaultBackground | Default |
| blackBackground | Black |
| redBackground | Red |
| greenBackground | Green |
| yellowBackground | Yellow |
| blueBackground | Blue |
| magentaBackground | Magneta |
| cyanBackground | Cyan | 
| whiteBackground | White |
 
### Style
| Key | Style |
| ----- | ----------- |
| highIntensity | High intensity (bold) |
| lowIntensity | Low instensity |
| italic | Italic
| underline | Underline
| blink| Blink |


## Details
The `SyntaxHighlightingDecorator` supports a list of `<syntaxHighlighterFactory>` elements. The colors are applied in chronological order. Highlighters not wanting to contribute to the current JSON event are expected to return an ANSI reset (including escaping).

## Tips and tricks
Exclude fields with low information value during testing. For example: 

```xml
<encoder class="net.logstash.logback.encoder.LogstashEncoder">
    <!-- remove unnecessary fields in testing -->
    <fieldNames>
        <levelValue>[ignore]</levelValue>
        <version>[ignore]</version>
    </fieldNames>
</encoder>
```

# History
 - 1.0.1-1.0.4: Update Jackson dependency due to security issue and dependency updates
 - 1.0.0: Initial version

[Apache 2.0]:          		http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
[issue-tracker]:       		https://github.com/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators/issues
[Maven]:                	http://maven.apache.org/
[1.0.2]:					https://github.com/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators/releases/tag/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators-1.0.1
[jackson-syntax-highlight]:	https://github.com/skjolber/jackson-syntax-highlight
[Jackson]:					https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson
[ANSI]:						https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code
[JSON]:						https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON
[JsonGeneratorDecorator]:	https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder/blob/master/src/main/java/net/logstash/logback/decorate/JsonGeneratorDecorator.java
[logstash-logback-encoder]:	https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder
[Kibana]:                   https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana
[conditional processing]:	https://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html#conditional
[Logback]:					https://github.com/qos-ch/logback

Commit message:

Add non-pretty-printed option

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators)

# logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators
ANSI syntax highlighting for [logstash-logback-encoder] JSON output.

Features:
  * Syntax highlighting (and pretty printing)
  * Special field handling 
    * Level: trace, debug, info, warn and error
    * Message

The primary use-case for this tool is coloring JSON console-output during __local development / unit testing__.

In production rather configure an encoder without a `Decorator` and apply proper visualization tools like [Kibana]. Use [conditional processing] to differentiate between different environments in [Logback] configuration.

## License
[Apache 2.0]

# Obtain
The project is based on [Maven] and is available at central Maven repository.

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.github.skjolber.logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators</groupId>
    <artifactId>logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.4</version>
</dependency>
```

or for Gradle

```groovy
compile ("com.github.skjolber.logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators:logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators:1.0.4")
```

# Usage
Add a [JsonGeneratorDecorator]:

```xml
<appender name="STDOUT_JSON" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
    <encoder class="net.logstash.logback.encoder.LogstashEncoder">
        <!-- add pretty-printing and syntax highlighting for testing -->
        <jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighlightingDecorator"/>
    </encoder>
</appender>
```

The default decorator is aware of the log-level and highlights `WARN` and `ERROR` with yellow and red background colors. 

## Custom colors
Define your own colors using `ConfigurableSyntaxHighlighter`:

```xml
<jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighligtingDecorator">
    <syntaxHighlighterFactory class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.factory.ConfigurableSyntaxHighlighterFactory">
        <stringValue>blue</stringValue>
        <numberValue>black highIntensity</numberValue>
        <fieldName>red</fieldName>
        <binaryValue>yellowBackground</binaryValue>
        <booleanValue>cyan</booleanValue>
        <nullValue>black</nullValue>
        <curlyBrackets>green</curlyBrackets>
        <squareBrackets>green</squareBrackets>
        <colon>green</colon>
        <whitespace>green</whitespace>
        <comma>green</comma>
    </syntaxHighlighterFactory>
</jsonGeneratorDecorator>
 ```

and space-separated foreground, background and style keys. For special handling of fields `message` and `level`, use the `LogLevelSyntaxHighlighterFactory`:

```xml
<jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighligtingDecorator">
    <syntaxHighlighterFactory class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.factory.LogLevelSyntaxHighlighterFactory">
        <level>
            <info>green</info>
            <warning>yellow</warning>
            <error>red</error>
        </level>
        <message>highIntensity blue</message>
    </syntaxHighlighterFactory>
</jsonGeneratorDecorator>
```

#### Pretty-printing
Pretty-printing (with newline + indent) is enabled by default. To disable it, a `prettyPrint`-element under `SyntaxHighlightingDecorator` like so:


```xml
<jsonGeneratorDecorator class="com.github.skjolber.decorators.SyntaxHighlightingDecorator">
	<prettyPrint>false</prettyPrint>
</jsonGeneratorDecorator>
```

### Foreground color
| Key | Text color |
| ----- | ----------- |
| default | Default text |
| black | Black text |
| red | Red text | 
| green | Green text |
| yellow | Yellow text |
| blue | Blue text |
| magenta | Magneta text |
| cyan | Cyan text |
| white | White text |

### Background color
| Key | Background color |
| ----- | ----------- |
| defaultBackground | Default |
| blackBackground | Black |
| redBackground | Red |
| greenBackground | Green |
| yellowBackground | Yellow |
| blueBackground | Blue |
| magentaBackground | Magneta |
| cyanBackground | Cyan | 
| whiteBackground | White |
 
### Style
| Key | Style |
| ----- | ----------- |
| highIntensity | High intensity (bold) |
| lowIntensity | Low instensity |
| italic | Italic
| underline | Underline
| blink| Blink |


## Details
The `SyntaxHighlightingDecorator` supports a list of `<syntaxHighlighterFactory>` elements. The colors are applied in chronological order. Highlighters not wanting to contribute to the current JSON event are expected to return an ANSI reset (including escaping).

## Tips and tricks
Exclude fields with low information value during testing. For example: 

```xml
<encoder class="net.logstash.logback.encoder.LogstashEncoder">
    <!-- remove unnecessary fields in testing -->
    <fieldNames>
        <levelValue>[ignore]</levelValue>
        <version>[ignore]</version>
    </fieldNames>
</encoder>
```

# History
 - 1.0.5: Add option for single-line output
 - 1.0.1-1.0.4: Update Jackson dependency due to security issue and dependency updates
 - 1.0.0: Initial version

[Apache 2.0]:          		http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
[issue-tracker]:       		https://github.com/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators/issues
[Maven]:                	http://maven.apache.org/
[1.0.2]:					https://github.com/skjolber/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators/releases/tag/logback-logstash-syntax-highlighting-decorators-1.0.1
[jackson-syntax-highlight]:	https://github.com/skjolber/jackson-syntax-highlight
[Jackson]:					https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson
[ANSI]:						https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code
[JSON]:						https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON
[JsonGeneratorDecorator]:	https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder/blob/master/src/main/java/net/logstash/logback/decorate/JsonGeneratorDecorator.java
[logstash-logback-encoder]:	https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder
[Kibana]:                   https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana
[conditional processing]:	https://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html#conditional
[Logback]:					https://github.com/qos-ch/logback
